The Dzogchen View of Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat Center.
The Dzogchen Book of the Four Noble Truths at Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat Center.
The Dzogchen Book of the Four Noble Truths Part 2 of 6. Khementsen Palden Sherab Rinpoche and Ret
reat Center.
The Dzoseeing Book of the Four Noble Truths Part 2 of 6. Khementsen Palden Sherab Rinpoche and Ret
The Dzorchen Book of the Four Noble Truths Part 2 of 6. Khementsen Palden Sherab Rinpoche and Ret
reat Center.
The Dzobchen Book of the Four Noble Truths Part 2 of 6. Khementsen Palden Sherab Rinpoche and Ret
And in that the greatest teacher when Buddha spoke or taught the first teaching is the Four Noble
Truths.
What he said first to his five disciples and all those celestial beings and animals.
First said must be recognized the suffering. Suffering that should be recognized.
That is what the religious first his teachings.
This suffering is kind of like under low currents to all the time we are. We all have these suffer
ings.
In the samsara of course there is also many good things ahead.
But the suffering is the highlighted kind of situation in the samsara we go through.
There is a good things we don't kind of highlight that and it just goes kind of almost goes so
quickly so past very very kind of speed of light.
But the said and sufferings something difficult that looks like stays long time.
And for that reason Buddha said first recognize or should see the suffering.
This suffering again there is many different things sufferings as in the Buddha's teaching said.
And I mean it's not just teaching said when we all kind of analyze this suffering situation.
There's three major sufferings often known as then those are the like old pervasive sufferings
under low currents sufferings that existing old.
And there is a second suffering is known as the changeable sufferings and the third is then
suffering our sufferings.
This is always we have in the samsara we have that means as long as we have the duality mind
grasping the clingings we have this this thought all the time.
Then beside that there is another sufferings those are known as then such as birth death getting
old sicknesses all that we go through this again this suffering or this kind of unpleasant
situation.
This is we that is there that definitely is we cannot avoid as soon as we have the birth we cannot
avoid the sicknesses as soon as we have the birth we cannot avoid also the getting old.
And as soon as we have the birth we cannot also avoid death.
This is always there these three things or that and beside that then often said in the teaching or
not just the teaching we experience it ourselves that we said that the sufferings of the inspir
ations separations of the loved ones that separated.
And then also something that are unwanted things are coming one after another and then kind of the
desirable things are coming one after another.
And then also for us the body is always something that uncomfortable or need to be always balanced
in this and that.
Having separations of the loved ones maybe I said already but anyway we all those are like
difficulties the change unpleasurable things that we go through that always.
Beside that then there's so many other things also can related one after another comes.
This is the what the part of the samsara this is the part of the result of this this grasping and
the cleanings that we hold.
And therefore what the poor that reason Buddha said first must be recognized the sufferings then
second he said must be awarded the cause of that suffering cause of that pleasure on pleasure on
pleasures is not just happening by itself.
Everything what we experience we go through it has cause it has conditions by the combination of
cause and conditions then it activating that and that's what we call the sufferings.
So cause of those must be said the all source of that must be avoided and we don't like the all
these sufferings the change we must be also walk in a deal with the how to avoid that very cause
and a condition so that we will be completely totally eliminated not just a cover up things can
relate passing through or cover up or trying to put trending.
But we uproot the very cause of that and that's what the gracious teacher Buddha said.
And for that again when we are in the teaching or the gracious teacher when analyzed by Buddha when
he said these what we are what we were the result comes or this suffering is not just a developing
by the no cause and no conditions so that means it has cause and conditions.
This cause and condition also not just a developing something completely different than the result
itself self so it's not just a kind of strange things are developing this result that whatever we
experience or whatever the result that corresponding bond with the cause and condition cause and
condition what we are things are that exactly correspond result itself.
The matching is not just kind of odd and end where developing something different things is always
respond that respond that and is also not somebody else is drawing these things and then destroy to
us is just one's own door and we are experiencing that that must be have something to do with our
own self that that's where where the system is.
And then when we look into more that that's what the teacher teacher grace teacher Buddha said is
all reflecting from this mind mind is the source of all this difficulties and troubles.
(singing in foreign language)